title: Hello World
date: 2012-06-17
topic: PROGRAMMING
intro: A snappy introduction that sets out the main argument for the piece. I'll cover the main ideas right here and hint at my conclusion without giving the game away completely.

If you can keep your head when all about you are losing theirs and
blaming it on you; If you can trust yourself when all men doubt you, but
make allowance for their doubting too; if you can wait and not be tired
by waiting,or being lied about, don’t deal in lies, or being hated,
don’t give way to hating, and yet don’t look too good, nor talk too
wise; if you can dream - and not make dreams your master; if you can
think - and not make thoughts your aim; if you can meet with Triumph and
Disaster and treat those two impostors just the same.

If you can bear to hear the truth you’ve spoken twisted by knaves to
make a trap for fools, or watch the things you gave your life to broken,
and stoop and build ’em up with wornout tools; if you can make one heap
of all your winnings and risk it on one turn of pitch-and-toss, and
lose, and start again at your beginnings and never breathe a word about
your loss.

A second level heading
----------------------

If you can force your heart and nerve and sinew to serve your turn long
after they are gone, and so hold on when there is nothing in you except
the will which says to them; ‘Hold on!’

> “If you can talk with crowds and keep your virtue, or walk with kings - nor lose the common touch.”

If neither foes nor loving friends can hurt you, if all men count with
you, but none too much; if you can fill the unforgiving minute with
sixty seconds’ worth of distance run - yours is the Earth and everything
that’s in it, and - which is more - you’ll be a man my son!

“If—” is a poem written in 1895 by British Nobel laureate Rudyard
Kipling. It was first published in the “Brother Square Toes” chapter of
Rewards and Fairies, Kipling’s 1910 collection of short stories and
poems. Like William Ernest Henley’s "*Invictus*“, it is a memorable
evocation of Victorian stoicism and the”stiff upper lip" that popular
culture has made into a traditional British virtue. Its status is
confirmed both by the number of parodies it has inspired, and by the
widespread popularity it still enjoys amongst Britons. It is often voted
Britain’s favourite poem.

> “If you can meet with Triumph and Disaster and treat those two impostors just the same”

This line is written on the wall of the Centre Court players’ entrance
at the British tennis tournament, Wimbledon, and a part of the poem was
read in a promotional video for the Wimbledon 2008 gentleman’s final by
Roger Federer and Rafael Nadal.

According to Kipling in his autobiography Something of Myself,
posthumously published in 1937, the poem was inspired by Dr. Leander
Starr Jameson, who in 1895 led a raid by British forces against the
Boers in South Africa, subsequently called the Jameson Raid. This defeat
increased the tensions that ultimately led to the Second Boer War. The
British press, however, portrayed Jameson as a hero in the middle of the
disaster, and the actual defeat as a British victory. Jameson’s life -
and the connection to the poem - is covered in the book *The If Man*.